Upgrade to sgw 4.0 (#914)
couchbaselabs/docs-sync-gateway: modules/ROOT/pages/upgrading.adoc

A rolling upgrade is the recommended method to upgrade a Sync Gateway cluster.
At a high level, a rolling upgrade consists of the following steps:

> . The load balancer configuration stops any HTTP traffic going to the node that's upgraded.

Reviewer: This is changing the meaning of the sentence. It need to stop traffic to nodes that haven't been upgraded yet but soon will be.

Author: Good catch! I'll change it to: 'The load balancer configuration stops any HTTP traffic to the node you're upgrading.' This makes it clear the traffic stops during the upgrade process, not after.

> . The upgrade performs on the given node

Reviewer: `the upgrade performs` doesn't make sense?

> . The load balancer configuration updates to re-balance the HTTP traffic across all nodes.

Reviewer: I am not sure this change makes sense from a grammatical POV but would like another doc writer's input on this.

This seems to be changing from passive voice to something else and it doesn't read very well to me - but I am not the expert writer.

Author: Good catch on the grammar issues. I've revised this to: 'The upgrade runs on the given node' and 'The load balancer re-balances HTTP traffic across all nodes.' This will maintain consistency and proper voice throughout the procedure.

Those steps are then repeated for each node in the {sgw} cluster.

== Upgrade to 4.0

=== Upgrade Requirements

. Couchbase Server 7.6.0 or later - Sync Gateway 4.0 does not support older server versions.

> . Couchbase Server 7.6.5 or later for bi-directional XDCR features.

Reviewer: Would it be simpler to only recommend `7.6.5`?

I can't think of a good reason why customers wouldn't be on the latest maintenance version and specifying 7.6.5 as the minimum covers all technical requirements for Sync Gateway.

. `shared_bucket_access=false` is no longer supported - databases do not start with `shared_bucket_access=false`.
. `allow_conflicts=true` no longer supported - databases do not start with this setting.

.One Way Upgrade
[CAUTION]
--
The migration to 4.x configuration is a ONE WAY process.
You cannot downgrade to previous versions after upgrading to 4.0.

> To continue using legacy-mode configuration see: <<lbl-3-0-upgrade-opt-out>>

Reviewer: This is mostly from the 2.x -> 3.0 persistent config upgrade process which overwrote old config files with new formats, and IMO doesn't really make sense to document in this way any more.

Upgrades to major/minor versions are _always_ a one way process since we don't support downgrade.

Author: Thanks for catching that, I've updated this to reflect that.

--

==== Considerations

Before commencing your upgrade you should:

. Verify your Couchbase Server version.

> . Remove or update `shared_bucket_access=false`, `allow_conflicts=true settings` and document any custom conflict resolution strategies.

Reviewer: It might make sense to make these changes as part of the upgrade, not beforehand? But this _would_ work. It just adds more steps.

Author: Done - integrated the config changes into the upgrade steps. Thanks for the suggestion to streamline it.

. Create configuration backups and document your current replication settings.

==== Process

.Step 1

. Upgrade Couchbase Server cluster to 7.6.0 or later and verify all server nodes are operational.
. Test Sync Gateway connectivity with existing version and start the Sync Gateway service.

> . Update Sync Gateway configuration file to match the new server version and features.

Reviewer: If SG is started in the bullet above, what is there to change? AFAIK we don't require any config updates from a server upgrade.

Author: I removed the config section since no changes are needed for server update.

.Step 2

. Remove the node from a load balancer or stop traffic to the node.
. Install Sync Gateway 4.0 and update your configuration file.
. Start the Sync Gateway service.
. Verify node health via xref:rest-api:rest_api_public.adoc#tag/Server/operation/get_-[REST API].

.Step 3

. Verify all databases are online.
. Test mobile client synchronization.

> . Validate Inter-Sync Gateway replication if configured.

Reviewer: Doing this usually requires the node be in the load balancer in the first place to be accessible from a device.

This seems a little bit over-kill for an upgrade process?

Author: I've simplified to just verifying databases are online before returning the node to rotation.

. Re-add the node to the load balancer or resume traffic to the node.

== Upgrade to 3.1

=== Use Persistent Configuration

The use of 3.x's Persistent Configuration feature is strongly recommended.
It's the default operational mode when starting {sgw}.

The feature provides a smooth upgrade path for existing users by automatically converting their existing configuration files to the new persistent configuration format.

.One Way Upgrade
[CAUTION]
--
The migration to 3.x configuration is a ONE WAY process.

> You cannot downgrade to previous versions after upgrading to 4.0.

Reviewer: This is in the 3.1 upgrade heading but mentions 4.0?

A rolling upgrade is the recommended method to upgrade a Sync Gateway cluster.
At a high level, a rolling upgrade consists of the following steps:

. The load balancer configuration stops any HTTP traffic to the node you're upgrading.

. The upgrade runs on the given node.

> . The load balancer re-balances HTTP traffic across all nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The load balancer configuration resumes traffic to the upgraded node.
```

Those steps are then repeated for each node in the {sgw} cluster.

== Upgrade to 4.0

=== Upgrade Requirements

. Couchbase Server 7.6.5 or later for bi-directional XDCR features.
. `shared_bucket_access=false` is no longer supported - databases do not start with `shared_bucket_access=false`.
. `allow_conflicts=true` no longer supported - databases do not start with this setting.

NOTE: As with all major version upgrades, downgrading from 4.0 to earlier versions is not supported.

==== Process

.Step 1

. Upgrade Couchbase Server cluster to 7.6.0 or later and verify all server nodes are operational.

> . Test Sync Gateway connectivity with existing version to ensure compatibility.

Reviewer: This is already part of upgrade requirements, so maybe this step should be renamed to Prerequisites to make it super-clear it should be done **before** SG upgrade starts? Customers should be able to do the server upgrade at any time before SG upgrade starts - even months before.

Author: Resolved and updated in latest commit.

.Step 2

> . Remove the node from a load balancer or stop traffic to the node.

Reviewer: 1 to many SG nodes and 1 load balancer - the wording should be this way around:

```suggestion
. Remove a node from the load balancer or stop traffic to the node.
```

> . Update the configuration file:

Reviewer: These settings have been deprecated and non-default for a while now, so most customers should've already moved away from them.

```suggestion
. Update the configuration file, if using unsupported settings:
```

- Remove `shared_bucket_access=false`.
- Remove `allow_conflicts=true`.

> . Install Sync Gateway 4.0 and update your configuration file.

Reviewer: Config update was done in bulletpoint above (if any changes were required)
```suggestion
. Install Sync Gateway 4.0
```

=== Tidy-up
Sync Gateway 2.0 will *not* automatically remove the previous design documents.

To remove the obsolete design documents, call the xref:rest-api:rest_api_admin.adoc#tag/Server/operation/post__post_upgrade[`_post_upgrade`] endpoint in Sync Gateway's Admin REST API.
This endpoint can be run in preview mode (`?preview=true`) to see which design documents would be removed.

== 1.x to 1.5

From: *Sync Gateway 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4* +

> To:  *Sync Gateway 1.5* +

Reviewer: Maybe track in a separate ticket initiative - but these versions are over 8 years old and really need removing from the docs.
Keeping them around introduces unnecessary maintenance burden like these changes below.

Author: Yeah, I've taken out 1.x to 1.5x related docs, do we still need the "Migrating from Bucket Shadowing" of the Upgrade page from an engineering perspective?

Reviewer: Nope, shadow buckets are also very old feature and no longer present in the product.
